---
layout: page
title: About this website
permalink: /aboutsite/
banner_image: klein768x432.png
banner_image_alt: About this website
---

You are probably wondering what's up with all the "vases" around this
website. Let me try to explain what they are and why they are here.

_(SKIP to the end of the page if you don't care about the details and
don't want to learn something new, you terrible terrible person)._

If your relationship with maths has never been too good, these figures
might just seem like a slightly wonky vase, designed by a contemporary
artist that is trying to make some sort of bold statement about
something. However, this wirdly shaped contraptions are so called
[Kelin bottles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Klein_bottle). and are
named after Felix Klein, a German mathematician who first described
them in 1882.

## Start with a strip

To get one you have to start M&ouml;bius
strip. This is another very interesting surface. To obtain one simply
cut a strip of paper, twist one end by 180 degrees and join it with
the opposite end. ![M&obius
strip](/assets/images/moebius.png){:.center-image} If you now take a
marker and start drawing along one "face" of the strip, you will
eventually end up at the starting point and will have drawn on both
sides of what was originally the paper strip.

In maths lingo, a M&ouml;bius strip is non-orientable and has one side
and one edge. Depending on whether you twist your paper strip
clockwise or anticlockwise, you can end up with two different kind of
strips. From a mathematical point of view this is the only difference
that matters. Topology (the area of mathematics that studies these
funny shapes) does not care about the absolute dimensions of a shape
and would consider a huge M&ouml;bius strip to be perfectly equivalent
to a tiny one. However, by twisting the strip in two different
directions, you end up with two intrinsically different shapes:
starting from the first you won't be able to obtain the second through
a series of continuous deformations, but you will have to cut into it
and glue it the other way around.

## Two strips one bottle

If you now take two M&ouml;bius strips and glue them together along
their (only) edge, you end up with a Klein bottle! The curious
property of a Klein bottle is that it is a non-orientable surface with
no edges. This means that if you once more take your marker and start
drawing at a random point on your Klein bottle (and assuming that your
hand is _extremely_ flexible), you would be able to reconnect with
your starting point without having to lift the marker from the
surface.

The shape at the top of this page is probably the most well-known,
however just like we had two kind of M&ouml;bius strips, we have
several kinds of Kelin bottles, but how many exactly? If you fir up
Google Images and search for Kelin bottles, you will find an
incredible amount of pictures of what seems to be totally different
shapes. The truth is that most of them are equivalent from a
topological standpoint, to be more rigorous they are all regular
homotopies. So, how many types of Kelin bottles do we actually have?
The answer is an underwhelming _four_, and that's being generous,
because we really have three really different shapes. It all has to do
with how you connect your M&ouml;bius strips. Two strips with
different handness will create the shape shown above, whereas two
right-handed or left-handed strips will create so called
figure-of-eight Klein bottles. If at this point you've only counte
three shapes then count again. When I say two strips with differen
handness, what I'm really saying is either left-right or right-left.
Unfortunately that is where the missing bottle comes from, and can
only be seen in a marked system of coordinates where each strip is
colored with a different color.

If I have somehow succedded in intriguing you about this topic, you
can find a paper by Carlo H. S&eacute;quin
[here](/papers/2013_JMA_Klein-bottles.pdf){:target="_blank"} that
describes all this in much greater detail.

## Out of this world

One final remark about Kelin bottles is that even though we see
physical items being called Kelin bottles, they are really not. By
definition a Kelin bottle folds into itself, but does not
self-intersect. This means that during one of your marker adventures
on the surface of a Kelin bottle, you could just draw straight through
the self intersection. I don't have to explain you why this is not
possible. So how do Klein bottles not self-intersect? Well, he truth
is that, as always, mathematician cheat. A Klein bottle is really a
four-dimensional shape that can not exist in our world with just three
dimensions. By moving the offending piece into a fourth dimension you
would be able to simply go through it. The same unfortunately can not
be done with physical, where a Kelin bottle is just a so-called
immersion in three dimensions.

# Why did you make me read all this?

---

{% include social.html %}
