---
title: New website
author: Alessio
banner_image: scanlines768x432.png
comments: true
categories: general
---

Fresh start and complete overhaul!

The website I was running before was put together in an afternoon and
I've been thinking of giving it a new coat of paint for a long time.
After much deliberation I finally settled on
http://jekyllrb.com[Jekyll, window="_blank"]. I figured that I was
using static pages already so I might as well move to smarter static
pages.

As it often happens, the real reason why I made this is to learn
something new. I wanted to try and build the website in a slightly
more interesting way, and also make it more maintainable. Jekyll is
indeed extremely simple to use, plus I get a responsive website and a
blog for free. I'm also a big fan of git, so using GitHub pages seemed
the most logical choice.

The previous version was running off of the Raspberry Pi in my living
room. While that is a perfectly viable solution considering the amount
of traffic that this website (doesn't) get, it felt a bit like too
much of a hack. Plus, without having a truly static IP address I had
to use a dynamic DNS and change things around every now and then.

This will all go away with this new setup and I will also have to
worry a bit less about backup, mostly just cross my fingers that
GitHub doesn't go belly-up overnight and do a manual copy every once
in a while.

Last but not least, I get to use my YubiKey to do the authentication
over SSH, which is always a big plus in my book.

If for some reason you're actually interested in the explanation
behind the website "theme" and the technologies used to make it you
can have a look at link:/aboutsite[this link, window="_blank"].

I understand that to the average visitor (i.e. you) this might seem
like a completely pointless exercise, but I had fun doing it and
learned a few things along the way. +
Now the question is, how long will it take before I get bored of
writing things or (more realistically) run out of interesting things
to post?

We shall see...
